Malin Space Science Systems requires a Console Application which runs continuously on the main server and provides calculation services to clients connecting via a private network. The calculation services are provided through a custom third-party DLL with specific mathematical formula. The third-party library must be complied as a DLL and added or referenced in the server implementation. The referenced third-party library must be called AstroMath.DLL and have the following four astronomical functions: Star Velocity, Star Distance, Temperature Conversion (Celsius – Kelvin) and Blackhole Event Horizon. 
A single client Windows Application will connect to the server program using Named Pipes from the Inter-Process Communication technologies. The client/server will utilise the Windows Communications Foundation for communications between the Form client and Console server. The client interface will provide the user with input text boxes for each astronomical calculation and read only output text boxes for the returned values. The astronomical output must be in the correct scientific format, while all input must be fully error trapped to prevent erroneous results. This includes validating input to ensure values are within the correct range for each calculation.
Malin Space Science Systems has three major European operations and requires a language option so the teams at each of these locations can change the language during runtime. The client application runs the same version of the application at all locations; this single client version will be distributed and must be customisable for language and UI display. The three languages are; English (UK), French and German. The teams work 24/7 and require a UI customisation so backgrounds, textboxes and buttons can be adjusted for different times during a 24-hour period (ie night mode). Therefore, the user can select/click a menu option on the client Form that will change the language for all controls and labels. The user can also select/click a menu option on the client Form that will change the colour of all the Buttons, Form Background and Text Labels. Finally, the user can select/click a menu option on the client Form that will open the Color Dialog and allow the user to select a Form background colour.
